POWERMON-580 0.5 Configuring power metrics doc updates (#95482)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/power-monitoring-kepler-configuration.adoc

[id="power-monitoring-kepler-configuration_{context}"]
= The {PM-kepler} configuration

You can configure {PM-kepler} with the `spec` field of the `PowerMonitor` resource.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Ensure that the name of your {PM-kepler} instance is `power-monitor`. All other instances are rejected by the {PM-operator} Webhook.
====

The following is the list of configuration options:

.PowerMonitor configuration options
[cols="1,3,2", options="header"]
|===
| Name
| Description
| Default Behavior

| deployment.nodeSelector
| The nodes on which Kepler (created by PowerMonitor) pods are scheduled.
| kubernetes.io/os: linux

| deployment.tolerations
| The tolerations for Power Monitor that allow the pods to be scheduled on nodes with specific characteristics.
| - operator: "Exists"

| deployment.security.mode

> | An enum that can be set to either none or rbac. If set to none, any entity can access Kepler’s metrics. If set to rbac, the metrics endpoint is secured with TLS and the kube-rbac-proxy sidecar, restricting access to service accounts listed in allowedSANames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Security mode can be set to either `none`, allowing unrestricted access to Kepler's metrics by any entity, or `rbac`, securing the metrics endpoint with TLS encryption and restricting access to authorized service accounts listed in `allowedSANames`.
| Set to `rbac` by default and only user workload prometheus is allowed access.
```

> | An enum that can be set to either none or rbac. If set to none, any entity can access Kepler’s metrics. If set to rbac, the metrics endpoint is secured with TLS and the kube-rbac-proxy sidecar, restricting access to service accounts listed in allowedSANames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Security mode can be set to either `none`, allowing unrestricted access to Kepler's metrics by any entity, or `rbac`, securing the metrics endpoint with TLS encryption and restricting access to authorized service accounts listed in `allowedSANames`.
```

> | Set to rbac in OpenShift and none in Kubernetes or other environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Set to `rbac` by default and only user workload prometheus is allowed access.
```

| deployment.security.allowedSANames
| A list of Service Account Names that can access Kepler’s metrics endpoint when security mode is rbac.
| In OpenShift, openshift-user-workload-monitoring:prometheus-user-workload is added. In Kubernetes or other environments, this is nil.

| config.logLevel
| The level of logs to expose by Kepler.
| Set to info.

| config.metricLevels
| A list of energy metric levels to expose. Possible values include node, process, container, vm, and pod.
| The default list includes node, pod, and vm.

| config.staleness
| Specifies how long to wait before considering calculated power values as stale.
| 500ms (500 milliseconds).

| config.sampleRate
| Specifies the interval for monitoring resources such as processes, containers, and VMs.
| 5s (5 seconds).

| config.maxTerminated
| Controls terminated workload tracking. A negative value tracks unlimited workloads, zero disables tracking, and a positive value tracks the top N terminated workloads by energy consumption.
| 500.

> | config.additionalConfigMaps
> | A list of ConfigMapRef objects specifying ConfigMaps to merge with the default Power Monitor ConfigMap. These must be in the same namespace as the Power Monitor components.
> | None. Users must create the ConfigMap and specify its name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Lets not document this as a supported configuration.
